README.md, before:

# XTP Plugin Bindgen

> *Warning*: This is very experimental and is still in the prototyping phase.
> Changes will be made without warning. Please wait before you start writing new bindgens.

This repository houses the prototype for bingden for typescript plug-ins in XTP.
It's based on the [XTP Schema](https://docs.xtp.dylibso.com/docs/host-usage/xtp-schema)
as the driving document. This document will be used to generate code and documentation
for plug-in systems and is specifically tailored to [Extism](https://extism.org/) at the moment.

When this is integrated into CLI, usage will look something like:

```bash
xtp gen --template @dylibso/xtp-typescript-bindgen --path ~/my-plugin
```

This will grab the `bundle.zip` which contains the plugin and templates from the [latest release](https://github.com/dylibso/xtp-typescript-bindgen/releases/latest).

[Here is my initial document](DESIGN.md) stating the design of the system. However things are changing as I'm implementing.
This codebase contains a mix of go code and typescript code in order to bootstrap the system. But
eventually all Go code will be genericized and moved into the XTP CLI. A generator will only be 
an Extism (usually TypeScript) plugin with some templates and a config file.

Commit message:

A few more improvements before we go live (#2)
* these we for example and we do not support yet

* Support 1d array property and params

* only render when empty

* Remove go stuff, setup test

* remove output dir

* cleanup comment

* move tests to directory

* whitespace, fix ghaction

* move dummy file

* update readme

* change test schema

* move more to xtp-bindgen

README.md, after:

# XTP Plugin Bindgen

> *Warning*: This is experimental and is still in the alpha phase.
> Changes will be made without warning. Please wait before you start writing new bindgens.

This repository houses the prototype for bingden for typescript plug-ins in XTP.
It's based on the [XTP Schema](https://docs.xtp.dylibso.com/docs/host-usage/xtp-schema)
as the driving document. This document will be used to generate code and documentation
for plug-in systems and is specifically tailored to [Extism](https://extism.org/) at the moment.

## Building

An XTP gen template is distributed as a zip file with a `plugin.wasm`, `config.yaml`, and a `templates`
directory of template files. To build this "bundle" run the `bundle.sh` command:

```
./bundle.sh
```

To test you can use the XTP CLI and `plugin init`. You just need to point it at
a valid [XTP Schema](https://docs.xtp.dylibso.com/docs/host-usage/xtp-schema) file:

```
xtp plugin init --schema-file ./tests/schemas/fruit.yaml --template ./bundle --path myplugin -y
```

> *Note*: If you have not installed the xtp cli:
> curl https://static.dylibso.com/cli/install.sh | sudo sh
